Added Fully Private EKS Cluster under Network Security Module (#26)
aws-samples/amazon-eks-security-immersion-day: content/6-network-security/4-fully-private-cluster/1-create-cluster/index.en.md

---
title : "Create Fully Private EKS Cluster"
weight : 151
---

Once you have logged into the AWS Management Console from your Workshop Studio, you will already have an AWS Cloud9 environment. Your AWS Cloud9 workspace will also have all the required tools installed in it.

- Navigate to [AWS Cloud9](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloud9) in AWS Console.
- Select **All account environments** from the drop-down menu.
- Click on **Open IDE** to open your AWS Cloud9 workspace.

![sign-in](/static/images/create-workspace/cloud9-IDE1.png)

- Closing the **Welcome tab**
  ![c9before](/static/images/create-workspace/cloud9-1.png)

- Opening a new **terminal** tab in the main work area
  ![c9newtab](/static/images/create-workspace/cloud9-2.png)

- Closing the lower work area
  ![c9newtab](/static/images/create-workspace/cloud9-3.png)

- Your workspace should now look like this
  ![c9after](/static/images/create-workspace/cloud9-4.png)

Set below environment variables

```bash
export ACCOUNT_ID=$(aws sts get-caller-identity --output text --query Account)

> export AWS_REGION=$(curl -s 169.254.169.254/latest/dynamic/instance-identity/document | jq -r '.region')

Reviewer: All the previous steps should be done in pre-requisite. As a global rule we try not to duplicate content between modules

Author: Only a initial part is mentioned here to maintain continuity of creating a separate VPC from the precreated CLoud9 env. This is required for this module since this it required a new VPC with Private subnets.

Reviewer: why exporting again ACCOUNT_ID, AWS_REGION ? they already exists in the environment

```

#### Create a VPC with Private Subnets with Internet Egress

```bash
wget https://ws-assets-prod-iad-r-iad-ed304a55c2ca1aee.s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/165b0729-2791-4452-8920-53b734419050/eks-private-vpc.yaml
```

```bash

> aws cloudformation deploy --template-file eks-private-vpc.yaml --stack-name eks-private-vpc

Reviewer: Do you explain somewhere what do the cloudfirmztion ?

Author: It mentioned in the label "Create a VPC with Private Subnets with Internet Egress". Also it is mentioned in the architecture diagram in the introduction.

```

::::expand{header="Check Output"}
```
Waiting for changeset to be created..
Waiting for stack create/update to complete
Successfully created/updated stack - eks-private-vpc
```
::::

```bash
aws ec2 describe-subnets --filters Name=tag:aws:cloudformation:stack-name,Values=eks-private-vpc Name=tag:aws:cloudformation:logical-id,Values=PrivateSubnet* --query "Subnets[*].[SubnetId,VpcId,AvailabilityZone]" --output table
```

```
----------------------------------------------------------------------
|                           DescribeSubnets                          |
+---------------------------+-------------------------+--------------+
|  subnet-0f0dbfbe773d48d6b |  vpc-02cc579cdd679aa3c  |  ap-south-1c |
|  subnet-051cc8911bb59cd8d |  vpc-02cc579cdd679aa3c  |  ap-south-1a |
|  subnet-0904b546818687aef |  vpc-02cc579cdd679aa3c  |  ap-south-1b |
+---------------------------+-------------------------+--------------+
```

We would use Private Subnets on AZ "a","b" and "c" for creating the EKS Cluster worker nodes and another Subnet in AZ "c" for Private Cloud9 instance. We would set the following environment vairables from the values in the above output table.

```bash

> export AZ1_SUBNET=subnet-051cc8911bb59cd8d

Reviewer: Why thoses values ? We should propose command that will work for customers,

Author: Agreed. Will make changes and update.

export AZ2_SUBNET=subnet-0904b546818687aef
export AZ3_SUBNET=subnet-0f0dbfbe773d48d6b
export CLOUD9_SUBNET=subnet-0f0dbfbe773d48d6b
export CLUSTER_VPC=vpc-02cc579cdd679aa3c
```

> #### Create and Setup Management Cloud9 instance in Private Subnet

Reviewer: Can’t we use the existing sting cloud9 and allow it to connect to private VPC ?

Author: In a real regulated environment even the Cloud9 or the Bastion Host would be cordoned off from the Public VPCs. This gives a closer to real life solution. Also the post creation of the Private Cluster the public cloud9 would anyways not be able to administer the cluster.

Reviewer: ok

```

 Let's save these into bash_profile

```bash
echo "export ACCOUNT_ID=${ACCOUNT_ID}" | tee -a ~/.bash_profile
echo "export AWS_REGION=${AWS_REGION}" | tee -a ~/.bash_profile
echo "export AZS=(${AZS[@]})" | tee -a ~/.bash_profile
aws configure set default.region ${AWS_REGION}
aws configure get default.region
```

**Validate the IAM role**

Use the [GetCallerIdentity](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/sts/get-caller-identity.html) CLI command to validate that the AWS Cloud9 IDE is using the correct IAM role.

```bash
aws sts get-caller-identity --query Arn | grep eksworkshop-admin -q && echo "IAM role valid" || echo "IAM role NOT valid"
```

If the IAM role is not valid, **DO NOT PROCEED**. Go back and confirm the steps on this page.

#### Create a Fully Private EKS Cluster in the VPC created earlier

Create an eksctl deployment file (**eksworkshop-eksctl-private.yaml**) used in creating your cluster using the following syntax:

```bash
cat << EOF > eksworkshop-eksctl-private.yaml
---
apiVersion: eksctl.io/v1alpha5
kind: ClusterConfig

metadata:
  name: eksworkshop-eksctl-private
  region: ${AWS_REGION}

> privateCluster:

Reviewer: Can you explain some of thoses parameters ?

Author: Which parameters are you referring to here ?

Reviewer: privateCluster:additionalEndpointServices

You can test access to your cluster by running the following command. The output will be a list of worker nodes

```bash
kubectl get nodes
```

You should see below output

```bash
NAME                                           STATUS   ROLES    AGE   VERSION
ip-10-***-***-***.ap-south-1.compute.internal   Ready   <none>   39h   v1.27.7-eks-e71965b
ip-10-***-***-***.ap-south-1.compute.internal   Ready   <none>   39h   v1.27.7-eks-e71965b
ip-10-***-***-***.ap-south-1.compute.internal   Ready   <none>   39h   v1.27.7-eks-e71965b
```

This should setup an EKS cluster with Private Endpoint for the Control Plane. The details of the newly created cluster can be fetched from the above command from kubectl commands. Notice in the output the cluster creation process first enables for the Private and Public endpoint for the API server to initial provisioning of the cluster. Later the public endpoint is delted as as a part of the eksctl command.

eksctl supports creation of fully-private clusters that have no outbound internet access and have only private subnets. VPC endpoints are used to enable private access to AWS services.

> The only required field to create a fully-private cluster is privateCluster.enabled. Only private nodegroups (both managed and self-managed) are supported in a fully-private cluster because the cluster's VPC is created without any public subnets. The privateNetworking field must be explicitly set. It is an error to leave privateNetworking unset in a fully-private cluster.

Reviewer: And karpenter works also ?

Author: The following considerations are required for karpenter. But since I did not include Karpenter in this module. I can provide the following link as a note.
https://aws.github.io/aws-eks-best-practices/karpenter/#amazon-eks-private-cluster-without-outbound-internet-access

Reviewer: yes please

+------------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
|  vpc-02cc579cdd679aa3c |  com.amazonaws.ap-south-1.s3                    |
|  vpc-02cc579cdd679aa3c |  com.amazonaws.ap-south-1.ecr.dkr               |
|  vpc-02cc579cdd679aa3c |  com.amazonaws.ap-south-1.ecr.api               |
|  vpc-02cc579cdd679aa3c |  com.amazonaws.ap-south-1.logs                  |
|  vpc-02cc579cdd679aa3c |  com.amazonaws.ap-south-1.ec2                   |
|  vpc-02cc579cdd679aa3c |  com.amazonaws.ap-south-1.sts                   |
|  vpc-02cc579cdd679aa3c |  com.amazonaws.ap-south-1.autoscaling           ||  
+------------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
```

This Wokshop would additionally require these VPC endpoints default. We would be created the same below.
* elasticloadbalancing - For ALB Controller addon to create ELBs
* eks - For Cloud9 to privately query EKS Service APIs
* ssm - EKS Worker nodes to be accessed through SSM without opening SSH ports
* ssmmessages - EKS Worker nodes to be accessed through SSM without opening SSH ports
* ec2messages - EKS Worker nodes to be accessed through SSM without opening SSH ports

> #### Create VPC endpoints

Reviewer: For what ?

Author: The reason for the VPC endpoints are mentioned below

Reviewer: ok

---
title : "Create Fully Private EKS Cluster"
weight : 151
---

Once you have logged into the AWS Management Console from your Workshop Studio, you will already have an AWS Cloud9 environment. Your AWS Cloud9 workspace will also have all the required tools installed in it.

> - Navigate to [AWS Cloud9](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloud9) in AWS Console.

Reviewer: All this is already describe here : https://catalog.workshops.aws/eks-security-immersionday/en-US/1-create-workspace-environment/1-awsevent/2-setup-cloud9

It is not necessary to duplicate this here, you can remove this part

Author: done

- Select **All account environments** from the drop-down menu.
- Click on **Open IDE** to open your AWS Cloud9 workspace.

![sign-in](/static/images/create-workspace/cloud9-IDE1.png)

- Closing the **Welcome tab**
  ![c9before](/static/images/create-workspace/cloud9-1.png)

- Opening a new **terminal** tab in the main work area
  ![c9newtab](/static/images/create-workspace/cloud9-2.png)

- Closing the lower work area
  ![c9newtab](/static/images/create-workspace/cloud9-3.png)

- Your workspace should now look like this
  ![c9after](/static/images/create-workspace/cloud9-4.png)

Set below environment variables

```bash
export ACCOUNT_ID=$(aws sts get-caller-identity --output text --query Account)
export AWS_REGION=$(curl -s 169.254.169.254/latest/dynamic/instance-identity/document | jq -r '.region')
```

#### Create a VPC with Private Subnets with Internet Egress

```bash

> wget https://ws-assets-prod-iad-r-iad-ed304a55c2ca1aee.s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/165b0729-2791-4452-8920-53b734419050/eks-private-vpc.yaml

Reviewer: where this bucket come from ? why not using workshop studio s3 bucket ?

Author: I used the S3 bucket backing the assets folder. I got this url from the Workshop studio itself when I started working on this before this AWS Samples Github repository was created. Is there a different S3 bucket for the workshop: Could you please help me on how to use it.

eksctl supports creation of fully-private clusters that have no outbound internet access and have only private subnets. VPC endpoints are used to enable private access to AWS services.

The only required field to create a fully-private cluster is privateCluster.enabled. Only private nodegroups (both managed and self-managed) are supported in a fully-private cluster because the cluster's VPC is created without any public subnets. The privateNetworking field must be explicitly set. It is an error to leave privateNetworking unset in a fully-private cluster.

If Karpenter is used for Auto scaling of worker nodes the following considerations are required. 
https://aws.github.io/aws-eks-best-practices/karpenter/#amazon-eks-private-cluster-without-outbound-internet-access

:::code{showCopyAction=true showLineNumbers=false language=yaml}
privateCluster:
  enabled: true
:::

> After the EKS cluster was created and since it is a Private Cluster, there would ne VPC endpoints created in the Cluster VPC to create PrivateLink with various AWS servcies. The following VPC endpoints are created behind the scene.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the EKS cluster was created and since it is a Private Cluster, there would be VPC endpoints created in the Cluster VPC to create PrivateLink with various AWS services. The following VPC endpoints are created behind the scene.
```

Author: done
